Bagri culture dominates the district, while Punjabi culture has influence in some areas.

Camel cart
Such scenes are common in some southern villages.
The embroidered odhni (mostly red) is a symbol of Bagri women. Kurto (a long shirt), Ghaghro/Ghagariyo (long frock-type clothes), Borlo/Boryo (a head ornament), and Odhni/Odhaniyo are the traditional dress of Bagri women, though the younger generation has adopted Salwar Kameez or western clothing.

The purdah (or veil) is mainly in vogue among Bagri women. Men mainly wear a pant-shirt, kurta-payjama and dhoti.

Traditional and Pop Punjabi music and Rajasthani devotional music is popular. Bollywood songs are listened to with the same enthusiasm as in other northern Indian regions.

Tourist attractions

This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2022) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Bror Village: Ruins of the Indus Valley civilisation are found here. It is on Anoopgarh-Ramsinghpur road.
Anoopgarh Fort is a ruin in the city of Anoopgarh. It was built by Anoop Singh Rathore.
The Hindumalkot Border, the Indo-Pak Border, derives its name from Hindumal, the Diwan of Bikaner. This international border is 31.8 km (19.8 mi) away and is just a 45 minutes drive from Sri Ganganagar, Pakistan's Observation Post can be seen from this site.
Vakilon Wali Diggi (D- Block Diggi) - From this place one can see, a shrine of Sikh religion - Gurudwara Namdev Bhawan, a shrine of Hindu's, Krishna Mandir devoted to Lord Krishna and A mosque, place where Muslims worship.
Temples and places for worship
Rojhri temple
A full view of temple complex from Ram Kutia.
Rojhri Inside temple
An inside view of Rojhri temple.
The landscape of Sri Ganganagar is dotted with temples and religious places. The famous temples in Sri Ganganagar include

Shri Paramhans PremaBhakti Dham Temple is the biggest temple in the area, inaugurated on 22 Jan 2024. It is around 12 kms from Sri Ganganagar Railway Station towards village Khat Labana.
Sukha Singh and Mehtab Singh brought here head of Massa Ranghar, who was guilty of sacrilege of Amritsar's Golden Temple, it is located near Jaitsar.
Gayatri shaktipeeth is dedicated to maa Gayatri, the goddess of vedas. the temple is at g-1-a hanuman nagar.
Ram Mandir
The Gauri Shankar Temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva. It was built using sandstone and has two cone-shaped turrets.
Sidh Peeth Shri Jhaanki Wale Balaji Ji Mandir
Hanumaan Mandir is dedicated to Hanuman in the heart of the city, in L-Block.
Balaji Dhaam is on Hanumangarh Road, near the Ridhi Sidhi Enclave. This temple is surrounded by other temples (Sai Dham, Sri Ganapathi Mandir, Srigannapur Shani Dev Mandir, Khatu Shyam Mandir, Maa Chintpurni Durga Mandir).
Durga Mandir, Sri Ganganagar
Nageshwar jyotirling temple and Sri Jagdamba Charitable Eye Hospital : The jyotirling mandir has a shivling of para (mercury). Shri Jagdamba Andh Vidhalay located next to the temple is a place where blind and deaf people get education and training.
Dada Pamparam's Dera is at Vijayanagar town, and is the samadhi[clarification needed] (tomb) of Baba Pamparam.
Rojhri Dham is a complex of religious sites dedicated to the worship of the Hindu deity Hanuman. Dham attracts local worshipers throughout the year. On Chaitra Purnima and Ashvin Purnima every year, large jagrans are organised, where thousands of people assemble to pay homage to the deity. Hanuman Sewa Samiti manages the temple and jagrans. The temple of Hanuman is on the right side of Anupgarh-Bikaner road, about one kilometre from Rojhri Village. It is approximately 55 km (34 mi) from Anupgarh, 22 km (14 mi) from Rawla Mandi, 17 km (11 mi) from Chhatargarh and 185 km (115 mi) south-west of Sri Ganganagar
Chanana-Dham (Chanana shrine): A great temple of Lord Hanumanji is here, built in 1971. It is 26 km (16 mi) from district headquarters on the way to Padampur (Tehsil) on bifurcating road at Chunawad town along with GG canal.
In addition to this, religious centres such as Gurudwara Buddha Johad and Shivpuri Kagad are common destination in city - Historical Gurudwara at Buddha Johad is 55 km (34 mi) from Ganganagar in the southwest near Jaitsar town. This is where Bhai Sukha Singh and Mehtab Singh brought the head of Massa Rangarh (guilty of sacrilege of the Amritsar Golden Temple) and hung it on a tree on 11 August 1740.
Laila-Majnu ki Mazar (tomb), Binjaur village. Laila Majnu Ki Mazar is 11 km (6.8 mi) from Anoopgarh on the western side. Here is the so-called mazar of Laila-Majnu. It was built in remembrance of mutual devotion and love between a teacher and a student. A fair is held in June.
Harmilapi Shree Hanuman Mandir: Temple of Hanuman ji built in Harmilapi colony along with a charitable clinic.