Location and area
Sri Ganganagar District is between latitudes 28.4 and 30.6 and longitudes 72.2 and 75.3[5] The total area of Sri Ganganagar is 11,154.66 km2 (1,115,466 ha; 4,306.84 sq mi). It is surrounded on the east by Hanumangarh district, (formerly part of Sri Ganganagar district) on the south west by Anupgarh district, (formerly part of Sri Ganganagar district) on the south by Bikaner District, on the west by Bahawalnagar district of the Pakistani Punjab, and on the north by Fazilka district of Indian Punjab.

Topography
Ganga Canal Rajasthan
Ganga Canal irrigates the northern-western area of the district; photo taken near Ganganagar city from Ganganagar-Hanumangarh road.
Indira Gandhi Canal, the largest canal in India, is located in Sri Ganganagar district.

Ganganagar Gharsana tehsil desert
Irrigation has made Ganganagar greener but sandy dunes can still be seen. A photo taken in Gharsana tehsil.
Rawla Mandi canal
The Anupgarh branch of the IGNP canal is the main source of irrigation in southern tehsils; photo taken in Anupgarh.
Although Sri Ganganagar district lies in the Thar Desert, irrigation via the Indira Gandhi and Ganga Canals has changed the flora and fauna. The district can be classified into five geographical regions:

The region irrigated by the Ganga Canal and the Bhakra canal tributaries: the northern region, which is 3/4 of the district, resembles the fertile plains of Punjab. Some areas, like the area between the towns of Raisinghnagar and Vijaynagar, have desert-like conditions.
Area irrigated by the Suratgarh branch of the Indira Gandhi canal
Area irrigated by Anupgarh branch of Indira Gandhi canal: It comprises Anupgarh and Gharsana tehsils. It is the southernmost region of the district, much of which has been converted into plains, but some sand dunes remain.
The Naali belt: This is a narrow basin of the Ghaggar River, the only major river of the district. It is a seasonal river which flows only in the rainy season. It enters the district near Suratgarh and flows in areas of Jaitsar, Vijaynagar and Anoopgarh, then crosses the Indo-Pakistan border.
The Villages in the area are named after the aanal/water distributary passing nearby. Example Village-Chak 5 BB, This is the thirteenth village on the BB Canal, Chak 4'E', is the fourth village on the E Canal/Distributary.
